# Machine-Learning--Computer-Vision

For this task, we were asked to detect food similarities between 3 images. We decided to approach this problem using siamese Network with a triplet loss function. To start we had to preprocess the images to a target size to be able to extract features from the images provided which we could use to train our machine learning algorithm. We used the already existing Imagenet network to extract embeddings from our images. After trying several different networks(Xception, EffficentNet, NasNetLarge) we found the best embeddings for training with NasNetLarge (as we got a large number of embeddings). The first part of the exercise was to set up a data pipeline where we have a list of triplets( anchor, positive and negative) and their extracted embeddings that can be fed into the Siamese Network. For the training, we build a siamese network in which we feed in our Anchor, Positive and negative images (that we have labeled) and we computed the Triplet loss to update our weights.  The triplet loss is computed by calculating the distance between the anchor and the positive embedding, as well as the distance between the anchor and the negative embedding and comparing those distances. The distance between the positive and the anchor embedding is smaller than the distance between the negative and the Anchor embedding. Once we set up our siamese Network and customized the layers of the sequential network (e.g dropout to avoid overfitting) and the loss, we split our Train set for validation and tried different combinations of layers and different epochs to observe the convergence of our loss. We also tuned our embeddings and tried several IMagenet networks for the highest accuracy. We obtained the best accuracy with a large number of embeddings and a small number of epochs (about 5-10).
